# Actions

Your macros are made up of "actions". There are different actions depending on what you want to do. 

<details>
  <summary><b><u><font size="+1">Example</u></b></summary>

For example, if you want to type "gg" in CS2, you could have this macro:

```yaml
Actions:
  - Shortcut: SHIFT+ENTER
  - SendText: gg
  - PressRelease: enter
```
</details>


<details>
  <summary><b><u><font size="+1">What kind of macros can you make?</u></b></summary>

- Shortcuts:
  - CTRL + C, CTRL + V, etc.
- Press whatever key you want, as long as it's [in the list](https://github.com/go-vgo/robotgo/blob/master/docs/keys.md#keys).
  - Skip song, type "enter", etc.
- Repeat keypresses (or mouse button presses)
  - Playing cookie clicker? Press your macro to repeatedly press your mouse button down until you click the macro again
- More? 

#### You can add multiple "actions" to a macro
If you want a single button to type "ggez" for you in VALORANT or CS, you can!
- You just need to add 3 actions:
  - Shortcut: shift+enter
  - SendText: ggez
  - PressRelease: enter
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b><u><font size="+1">Config file</u></b></summary>

- Running go-mmp will generate a config for you at `$HOME/mmpConfig.yml`
    - e.g. `C:\Users\ssebs\mmpConfig.yml` or `/home/ssebs/mmpConfig.yml`
  - You can see what will be generated by looking at the [defaulyConfig.yml file](./res//defaultConfig.yml)
    - Take a look here to see what the file format should look like
  - You can edit this config from a text editor like Notepad, VSCode, or vim
    - All config changes must be made in this file, **this is how you create macros**
    - If someone would like to create a GUI based editor, please feel free 😁
- You can also run `go-mmp.exe` with a `mmpConfig.yml` file in the same directory to load from that config instead of the `$HOME` file
- In the config file, this is where you configure:
  - The MacroPad's layout (3x3 buttons)
  - The serial device info (portname, buad, etc)
    - You'll need to find out what the Serial port name is
  - The Macros themselves
    - The digit is used to position the macros, so keep the 1,2,3,4... for each macro you want.
    - Name:
      - This is what shows up on the buttons in the GUI. You can use emojis here.
    - Actions:
      - List of Actions
- The keyname must be found in https://github.com/go-vgo/robotgo/blob/master/docs/keys.md#keys, or if it's a mouse button then it should be "LMB", "RMB", "MMB"
- When you press a button on the Arduino based MacroPad, it should run the macro.
- You can also click the button in the UI to run the macro.
</details>



<details>
  <summary><b><u><font size="+1">Format</u></b></summary>

All the available actions are listed below, the format is:
  ```yaml
  Actions:
    # FuncName: parameter
  ```
</details>


### Actions list:


#### PressRelease
- Press and release a key or mouse button.
- e.g. `enter`, `a`, `alt`, `LMB`

#### Press
- Press and hold a key, to release a key use "Release".
- e.g. `enter`, `a`, `alt`, `LMB`

#### Release
- Release a key from being held.
- e.g. `enter`, `a`, `alt`, `LMB`

#### SendText
- Type out text from the keyboard.
- e.g. `ggez`, `Thanks, ssebs`, `git-gud`

#### Shortcut
- Run a shortcut by typing multiple keys at once.
- e.g. `CTRL+SHIFT+ESC`, `CMD+C`, `CMD+R`
  - Hotkey sequence, split up by "+" chars. All keys between the "+"'s will be pressed at the same time.
  - NOTE: The "Windows" button is "CMD", same for the "Command" button on a Mac.

#### Delay
- This will add a time delay. This can be useful if your macro is too fast.
- e.g. `10ms`
- You must enter a duration string. A duration string is a possibly signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
  - This is useful if your set of actions are too fast and you need to slow them down.

#### Repeat
- Press and repeat a key or mouse button over and over with the delay between each press.
- e.g. `LMB+50ms`, `z+500ms`
  - KeyName + delay sequence, split up by "+" chars. Only 1 "+" is allowed, so you MUST only put 1 key/mouse button on the left, and a duration string on the right.
  - The delay must be formatted as a duration string like above.

